# On Struggling in Business School

Many people reached out to me after I posted "What going to business school did for me". They mostly congratulated me and said that they liked the writing. The conversations did not go much deeper than that, I did not ask them why they liked it. But I can guess. I think that people connected with that I wrote about how I struggled in business school. I struggled with the business school culture. I struggled to find my group. So I'm going to write more about that.

I think that struggling in business school is normal. In fact, I think that's almost the point of business school, is to force the reflection and learning that results in growth as a person. To put us under pressure. Personally, I don't think suffering is all bad. The Greeks thought of suffering as a like a trophy. That Gods caused the humans to suffer because they loved them, that suffering and truth were two sides to the same coin. I want to be clear that I think there is a threshold, and if you are reading this, and you are suffering to the point where you think you might need help, get help. If you can't find help, send me a message.

What I found so frustrating about suffering in business school was that there was no literature on it. There was writing that made me feel seen, like "Catcher in the Rye" and "Le Misanthrope", but Holden Caulfield and Alceste were in completely different settings, different timelines. And it took a while for me to find them. When I look at business school experiences on the internet, pretty much all of them are jolly and good. "The best two years of your life, guaranteed", according to every single alum ever, and Poets&Quants, and current students writing for the school magazine. Was it the best two years of my life? Maybe. But for sure I suffered.

I thought because I didn't like business school, that meant I was broken or deficient. If only I could will myself to like consulting, to want to be a consultant. I tried to do that, but all I saw were people who just cared about being liked. Who would immediately, without even being asked, give up all their power to whoever it was they wanted approval from. I just couldn't do that. But I couldn't allow myself to quit on school either. So I just took it one day at a time, and just left the question of what I was doing there unanswered.

I ended up taking all my classes in other schools. I was chronically "the one guy from business school", "the one guy from business school" in European Drama, "the one guy from business school" in Experimental Writing and Performance, "the one guy from business school" in Critical Race Theory, the list goes on. I could enroll anywhere and I just took the classes I was interested in. Besides one standout class called Family Law where I found community, the norm was that I wouldn't really meet anyone. 

In European Drama, we learned about these people called "anchorites" who spent their lives secluded in single room in the middle of a Church. As they went in, they were symbolically prounounced dead. There were a few times they came back to life, they were consulted on rare occasions like during Black Death, and in those few instances they were known for saying things that were pithy and wise. I felt like an anchorite. By night I secluded myself in my single room reading the books and papers assigned, by day I was a nameless participant in these classes, where in the few times I was consulted, I aimed for something pithy and wise. Maybe I could have changed my living situation, gotten a roommate. But then I never would have gotten the feeling of being dead, and never gotten the feeling of being reborn.

I'm glad I went to business school. I'm glad that I suffered through it, and I'm a better person for it. But I'm not telling people I liked it. And I think that's perfectly OK.