# What going to business school did for me

As my first year of business school wound down, I felt alone. I knew I didn't want to be a consultant or a banker. I didn't feel like I fit in. But quitting *now*? Nuh-uh. I had already studied for the GRE, wrote application essays, shepherded recommendations, quit my software engineering role at Google, moved to New Haven, completed the first year core. I owed it to myself to finish what I had started. Now that it’s over, I have time to reflect, to think about what I was really looking for when I went back to school, and what I got out of it.

When I applied to school, I just needed a change. I was burned out from Covid. I was inside all the time, working out of my garage. I felt like I was just watching my life pass me by, and when I almost lost my little brother, I took it as a sign to change. I wanted to get my spark back, to feel like I was learning again. I wanted to get outside and meet new people, explore the world. I felt like I could get both of these things out of going back to school, so I set my sights on business school.

School did give me back my spark. I remember when I first joined Google, everything was new, exciting. On the hour-and-a-half bus ride to Sunnyvale I'd just read all the technical documentation, how Borg and Colossus and Flume worked, the Google way of doing this or that. The writing was so rich, so detailed, and sometimes even funny. Of course that feeling tapered as time went by. When I went back to school, all of a sudden I found myself surrounded by these young kids who I felt were totally naive but did things with vigor. I liked the energy.

I took some great classes in both first and second year. I found that, in the School of Management, I typically hated the classes people loved, and loved the classes people hated. I think this was partly because I did not care so much about the topic of the class, whether it was “career advancing” or not, as the passion of the teacher. I also didn’t mind when classes assigned a lot of reading, and the most reading was usually assigned by those passionate teachers. I also took as many classes outside of the School of Management as was possible, which ended up being about half my classes, and I believe some of these were life-changing. I took a class called Daily Themes where we had to write a 300-word piece five days a week for a semester, where I started to find my voice as a writer. I took Family Law, where we read two hundred family-related court cases, divorce, child abuse, polygamy, you name it, and I developed a real appreciation for my own family, and my two loving parents who support me to succeed. Everyone should have that, but not everyone does. I took Critical Race Theory, where I examined my identity as a White person, and as a Jewish person, and it gave me a new lens through which to see the world. In these classes I learned about myself and about the world around me, which is exactly what I wanted when I applied to school. It just didn’t all happen at the School of Management.

I also explored outside of the classroom. I got into bikepacking and on school breaks I completed solo trips across the U.S., the Florida Divide Trail, and biked from Malaga, Spain to Oslo, Norway in three months. I traveled to Bhutan on a school sponsored trip and it was awesome. I wasn’t quarantined anymore. I took full advantage.

Taken together I think all of these experiences prepare me to be a better software engineer. The engineers that I idolized at Google, they were people who saw the bigger picture. They understood who was using the software, why they were using it, what problem it solved. They were able to express themselves in writing with a voice that swayed the hearts and minds of the organization. And I believe that writing skills and business perspective will only become more important to the average engineer as AI tools change the engineering game. When I left Google, I made a career move that confused many people. Now I’m making another move that confuses people, going back into software engineering. But I believe that this path will become more common, as the software engineering skillset evolves over time.

I will say that I eventually did find my people at Yale SOM. During second year I formed a book club with two other classmates and it attracted some other members who had a shared interest in reading and learning. Did I need to go through all that just to form a book club? No, probably not. But I ended up finding my crowd. All I needed to do was stick with it.
